# Client for GoCardless Enterprise API

**WARNING: This Client is Auto-Generated by [Crank](https://github.com/gocardless/crank).
Do NOT create changes or pull requests for individual changes to the client code. See
[Contributing](#contributing)**
## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem '<no value>'
```

## Usage Examples

- In the case of singular responses, Crank will return you an response object with getters matching the json descriptions and an attached response().
- In the case of list responses, Crank returns an list response object that is read-only. Raw array data can be retrieved from the items() function of the object.
- In the case of non JSON responses, Crank will return the raw response (PDFs etc.)

### Client Initialisation
```php
$client = new \GoCardless\Client(array(
  'api_key' => 'YOUR API KEY',
  'api_secret' => 'YOUR API SECRET',
  'environment' => \GoCardless\Environment::SANDBOX
));
```
The api_key and api_secret can be found under the organisation tab, the environment can either be `\GoCardless\Environment::SANDBOX` or `\GoCardless\Environment::PRODUCTION`.

Given the client object, resource objects can be accessed then methods on each resource can be called to either fetch or manipulate the resource's members.

### GET requests

Simple requests can be made like this:

```php
$client->resource()->list()
```
returning an iteratable ListResponse.


If you need to pass any options, the last (or in the absence of URL params, the only) argument is an options hash. You can use this to pass parameters like this:
```
$client->resource()->list(array(limit => 400))
```

In the case where url parameters are needed, the method signature will contain required arguments:

```
$client->resource()->show(resource_id)
```

As with list, the last argument can be an options hash:

```
$client->resource()->show(resource_id, array(limit => 200))
```

### POST/PUT Requests
If your request needs a body, you can add this in the same way you would add query params or headers.
**However**, you need to add the enveloping key!

```
$client->customer()->create(array(
    "given_name" => "Pete",
    "family_name"  => "Hamilton"
));
```
This returns a response object as the new created resource

As with GET requests, if href params are required they come first

```
$client->resource()->update(resource_id, array(...))
```

### Handling failures

When an API returns an error, Crank will return an `GoCardlessError`.

Assuming the error response form the server is in JSON format, like:

```
{
  "error": {
    "documentation_url": "https://developer.gocardless.com/enterprise#validation_failed",
    "message": "Validation failed",
    "type": "validation_failed",
    "code": 422,
    "request_id": "dd50eaaf-8213-48fe-90d6-5466872efbc4",
    "errors": [
      {
        "message": "must be a number",
        "field": "sort_code"
      }, {
        "message": "is the wrong length (should be 8 characters)",
        "field": "sort_code"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

Crank will return an `\GoCardless\Core\Error\GoCardlessError`-based error. The possible errors vary on the exception internally but are `InvalidApiUsageError`, `InvalidStateError`, and `ValidationFailedError`, all other errors use the `GoCardlessError` class. If the error is an http transport layer error (cannot connect, empty response from server, etc.), the client will throw an `HttpError`. You can access the raw hash (unenveloped) via the `->error()` method, and a list of all the errors via the `->allErrors()` method. By default the error message will contain the error's message and a link to the documentation if it exists.


## Supporting PHP < 5.3.3
Crank only supports PHP >= 5.3.3 (possibly 5.0) out of the box due to its extensive
use of OOP operators and namespaces in PHP for code cleanliness.

## Contributing

This client is auto-generated. If there's a bug it's likely with the
[Crank](https://github.com/gocardless/crank) template or Crank itself.

Bugs should be reports on those respective repositories.
